Design Patterns are proven, well established architectures.
One of the most common software patterns in the automotive industry is called E-Gas.
An E-Gas pattern, defines three levels of software.
Level one is a functional level which contains the intended functionality of the system.
For the lane assistants example used in previous lessons,
the intended functionality would be,
to turn the wheel towards center and vibrate the steering wheel based on camera data.
Levels two and three of the E-Gas pattern, are for monitoring.
Level two refers to
functional monitoring which monitors level one for any safety goal violations.
For example, level two software,
would monitor the lane assistants time and
torque request as discussed in the previous lessons.
Level three is for processor monitoring of major hardware components.
Level three software boot, for example,
monitor RAM, ROM and control flow.
In our lane assistants example,
the level one software would send torque requests to the steering wheel motor.
If the level two or three software detects an error,
then output from level one is disabled and the level two or three software,
leads the system to a safe state.
In this case, we determined that the safe state would send a torque output of zero.